# Soccer_Analytics

Soccer(more commonly referred to as football) is a team sport involving two competing teams with eleven field players each and is considered the most popular sport in the world. The modern-day variant of the sports has its origin in England where the rules were first drawn up around the mid-19th century. Today, soccer is watched and played by billions of people all across the world. 

In terms of revenue and overall level of competition, Europe is the most prominent soccer market in the world. In the 2016/17 soccer season, professional soccer in Europe had an estimated market size of 25.5 billion U.S. dollars. The main administrative body for soccer in Europe is the Union of European Football Association (UEFA) which organizes club and national competitions such as the UEFA Champions League for clubs and the European Championship for national teams. The UEFA Champions League alone generated total revenue of over two billion Euros in the 2016/17 season. 

Annual player wages are in the millions depending on their performance, ability and the leagues they play for. Lionel Andres Messi is an Argentinian soccer player. The FC Barcelona forward is the highest-paid soccer player, earning $111 million and taking home $84 million in salary and winnings, along with $27 million in endorsements. He is also the second-highest paid athlete in the world.  Cristiano Ronaldo was the second-highest-paid soccer player in 2018, as he made $61 million in salary and winnings from Real Madrid and $47 million in endorsements, for a whopping total of $108 million. The Portuguese athlete has been a forward on the Real Madrid and Portugal national teams.

The aim of this project was to use player ability statistics to predict the wages they make. The dataset was downloaded from Kaggle and can be found here.
